What if I told you most DDC brands are
paying 10 times more than what they need
to when it comes to branded search for
clicks that you're going to get anyway?
Stick around because I'll show you how
to reduce that spend without sacrificing
conversions. And before I explain all
these things, I'm just show you a couple
times where we've actually done that.
So, here's a recent example where we
pulled keywords out into a new campaign.
And you can see pretty much when that
happened, we went from a cost per
conversion of 33 21 up to 56 down to a
steady $6. And you can see in the first
week week where we actually make the
change, we get more conversions. Then it
goes down a little bit. But again, it's
not because we haven't been down at the
22 conversions a week level before. This
is just seasonality in terms of this
particular business. If we take another
one, you can see again here when were we
spending? We were spending 3,000 2.5,000
2,000 per week. and I drop it. I drop
the CBC's. We go down to 118 croner, 280
kroner, 2300 kroner. But again, we don't
drop in clicks. This drop in clicks here
was simply just because of seasonality.
As you can see, we're growing again once
we start going up. Problem is, all of us
think that you need to defend your
branded traffic, right? If you're
running searcher shopping ads, you want
to make sure anyone searching for your
brand name ends up on your site. That
seems pretty obvious, but that mindset
gets expensive really fast if you don't
understand which group of brand you fall
into and you don't know how to manage
the bids properly in Google Ads. But
let's start with the grouping. There are
two different groups. One is no outside
distribution, meaning you're not selling
on marketplaces that are bidding for
your brand term. You're not selling
wholesale to other advertisers who will
be bidding for your brand term. you are
the only seller and your job is simply
just to defend your position against
competitors who are not selling the same
product. The second group is all the
ones with outside distribution. Now
you're all of a sudden competing with
other people selling your own product
and competitors. But again, I've seen a
10x difference in CPCs just by managing
it wrong. So if you have no outside
distribution, that's what I showed you
before those both of those examples. We
have absolutely no competitors. after
switching to manual bids, the cost per
conversion dropped by 10x. Or in the
other example, the first example I had
was where we divided the campaign
branded keywords into its own campaign
and ran manual bids. Everything also
just performed much better. However, if
you have outside distribution, then you
are actively competing with retailers or
marketplaces that are selling the same
stuff that you are, and then you're in a
bidding war for traffic that you've
partly created. And yes, you want to
convert that traffic on your own site.
That's why we all do TDC. But if you're
not strategic, you're just bidding
against yourself for no reason. And
that's because smart bidding isn't built
for branded traffic. The problems arise
is that one, smart bidding maximizes for
volume, not for efficiency. And two,
even with a high ROS target, smart
bidding won't minimize spend if it can
get more conversions or more of the same
conversions or more exposure at a lower
efficiency, it will bid to that ROS
target that you set. So for branded
search, you want to do four things. one
simple structure we want to use manual
bids. The only other option you have
than using manual bids is use target
impression share but don't set it to
100% and use max CBC's that gives you a
limit to how it's supposed to be but
again you have to manage it. The second
thing is that when you use manual bids
then you get direct control which means
you have easy optimization which comes
from the third thing is that we can test
for instance we've seen scenarios where
clicks remain stable while CPCs drop by
half or 10x and that's the ideal
scenario like I started this video
showing it's actually doable but if you
lower your bids and in the experiment
you see that your clicks drop or your
conversions drop then you've gotten
below the minimum bidding threshold
against competitors and you just bid
back up. But way too many of you out
there are never ever testing this. So
this is what we see on branded search.
Test it for branded shopping and the
optimal bidding structure there. It gets
a little bit more complicated. One, if
you're a few products, then manual
bidding will still work. But two, if you
have thousands of products, consider
smart bidding with strict controls like
max CPCs or very high ROS targets
because you will constantly have to
figure out, okay, what should this bid
be for this product? And that I'll just
say right now, unless you already know
what you're doing. You can't run manual
bids like that anymore. Very few people
have the skill set to do that. So you're
going to mess up. And that's where smart
bidding is better because otherwise
you'll end up ruining performance
because you're sending too much traffic
to low selling products. The only thing
is that when we use smart bidding for
standard shopping and this is point
number three, then you still want those
performance parameters. You still want
to put in a max CBC. You still want to
run a very high row target because it
applies to branded shopping too. But
only thing is that branded showing is
different from search in terms of just a
lot of products. Before you start
adjusting your bids, you want to
understand what the danger zones are. So
I just want to gut share a couple
numbers that you can go into your
account and say if you're spending too
much. And again, these aren't hard
rules, but in most cases, if you're
outside of these ranges, then you are
overspending. So the number one red flag
to look at is if you're spending more
than 10% of your overall ad budget on
your brand, that's a huge red flag.
That's a problem. The second thing is
that if your branded ROAZ is less than
two times of your generic ROS, then it's
another red flag. So if your generic
ROAS is 500% and your branded ROAS is
800%. Either you're you're being you're
being too aggressive for your brand or
you're not aggressive enough on generic
and that's a problem. So those are the
two main ones to look at. And you can
also look at it like if if you have 100%
ROA on your on generic and your ROS on
your brand is like 5x, it's also a
problem. Normally your brows and your
brand especially in search want to be at
least 8 to 10x and probably 20 30 40x
again some some industries are outliers.
I've seen the the mattress industry
especially in the US just be absolutely
insane. Um but nine times out of 10
these numbers should hold up. So now
you're probably thinking okay great
we've gone through some of these things
but how do I know for sure if I am
overpaying? And again there there's no
magic formula. The only way to test this
properly is to run an experiment in
Google Ads. So, the way to run a test in
Google Ads uh with this is using the
experiment function where we're going to
go in, we're going to set the lower or
higher a bit. We're going to track the
impact conversions versus savings. And
then we're going to rinse and repeat and
really dial in the bid. So, let me just
show you how to do that. So, go to
campaigns, click on experiments, we
click up here, we click something else,
we click on search, then we say brand
bid lower. We check we select the base
campaign. Save and continue. Then it
will ask us to what changes do we want.
We don't want to see those two
campaigns. We just want to see the
campaign that we're going to change. We
go into this one. I go in on a keyword
level. And now we change the bids.
Change max CBC's to we try just to put
down to
0.75. Reply. We wait because Google Ads
is slow. We click on schedule. go in and
we say what we want to track is we want
a number a number of clicks we want
there to be no significant change and
then we want the cost to decrease that's
what we're looking for here because
we're lowering the bits you can change
the experiment split I like 50/50
because this is not a big change
duration just let it set sit on what it
is you want to enable sync so if you
change any ads in the original it also
goes over if you add keywords also goes
over and that's basically it click
create experiment I've already created
one for another video at did around
this. So, but again, you create
experiment and then you launch the
experiment and that's it. Testing here
is key because branded search can look
like it performs well at almost any bid.
You can again you can have 8x, 10x, 15x
and it looks really really good but you
don't realize how cheap those
conversions could actually be and the
bigger brand you are you can have a
significant spend in it. All right,
let's now say that the numbers tell you
that you're overspending. you've lowered
the bids and you're kind of going,
"Okay, I'm I'm losing conversions when I
do it. What else can you do?" Okay,
there's two other ways to lower your
brand spend without changing your bids,
without changing anything in the
account. The first one is try to avoid
paying. Like, if a few competitors are
bidding for your brand, reach out to
them. Most business owners don't want to
waste money on a click war. So, reach
out to them. Use your agency. A lot of
people use me and in Savvy and they
reach out and say, "Hey, I will reach
out to the PPC manager that I might know
already or I know the owner over there
and we can all hook up together and we
can say, okay, let's just avoid bidding
on each other's keywords." This is a
much bigger thing in Europe than in the
US. In the US, most people don't want to
do this, but in the Europe, it's still
possible to do these gentleman's
agreements. No comments on culture
there. For distributors, like wholesale
and stuff like that, it's a little bit
more delicate. It's still worth trying.
There are some rules in Europe that says
that you can't do this, but you can
reach out to your distributor and say,
"Hey, I I don't want you to bid for a
brand term." Some are more than happy to
oblige. And the second thing is when you
look at all this and and a lot of
especially owners will fall trapped to
this is don't be number one. Like I know
this is a little bit of an account
thing, but I see I have a lot of
conversations about this with with brand
owners where someone say you don't need
to be in a position one for your own
brand. If you drop from 99% the top
impression share to 95% and you save 50%
of your CBC's, you might look at it
like, "Oh my god, we're not number one,
we're number two, three, or four when
somebody search for a brand." But if you
save 50% of your CBC's and you lose 5%,
10%, 15% of your conversions, that is a
win because over bidding on your name is
like giving Google free tax. The only
ones benefiting are your competitors.
Four takeaways from today. One 10x cost
difference on branded search is real.
Don't assume smart bidding is the best
way or is the cheapest way to actually
run your bidding for your brand term
even though it is the best way to run
bidding generally in an account. Number
two, if you compete with your
distributors for your brand term, then
treat your brand terms more like a
generic keyword, albeit it is very low
funnel. The third thing is remember use
experiment feature in Google ads to AB
test your bids. That's the only way to
know your optimal brand spend. And four,
repeat the those experiments two times
per year or whenever auction inside
shift, meaning you get a lot of new
competitors, you've added new
wholesalers, etc. Actions from here is
start to experiment. Fastest way to get
real data to really AB test what happens
when you try to lower or increase your
bid. Try to pull your brand performance
and ask yourself, am I overpaying
against the benchmarks that I put up
early in this video? And if you already
know the answer, just go out, lower your
bids and watch what happens. That was it
for me today. I swear most people are
paying way too much for their brand
terms. So try to take a look in your
account and see what you find. Any
questions, any insights, put them in the
comment section and I'm here to answer
all of them. There'll be a new video out
next week. If you're into practical PPC
insights that you can actually help you,
then subscribe. I share tips,
breakdowns, and call out what's working
and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff
that you can use every single